Add checklist to update maintainers team (#2584)
nf-core/website: src/content/docs/checklists/community_governance/maintainers_team.mdx

---
title: Maintainers Checklists
subtitle: Step-by-step guides for maintainers team tasks
markdownPlugin: checklist
---

> ## Maintainers Team Onboarding

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Maintainers team onboarding
```

> Team Leads:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Team lead:
```

1. [ ] Add member to [#team-maintainers](https://nfcore.slack.com/archives/C043UU89KKQ)
2. [ ] Add member to [Github group](https://github.com/orgs/nf-core/teams/maintainers)
3. [ ] Add member to Slack group

> 4. [ ] Add new maintainers to the [Maintainers team google calendar](https://calendar.google.com/calendar/u/0?cid=ZDA3MmVkOGI1NzQ0YWViOWE3ZjBkMDE4YjFjZWE1OGE5M2MwZDZlZTIyMzM1YWE5YzA0NTlmODg0YTZkMDNkZEBncm91cC5jYWxlbmRhci5nb29nbGUuY29t)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. [ ] Add member to the [Maintainers team google calendar](https://calendar.google.com/calendar/u/0?cid=ZDA3MmVkOGI1NzQ0YWViOWE3ZjBkMDE4YjFjZWE1OGE5M2MwZDZlZTIyMzM1YWE5YzA0NTlmODg0YTZkMDNkZEBncm91cC5jYWxlbmRhci5nb29nbGUuY29t)
```

New Maintainer:

> 1. [ ] Add self profile to the [About > Governance > Maintainers section](https://nf-co.re/governance#maintainers)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. [ ] Add profile [**About > Governance > Maintainers**](https://nf-co.re/governance#maintainers)
```

> 1. [ ] Make a PR to nf-core website adding themselves to the [About > Governance > Maintainers section](https://nf-co.re/governance#maintainers)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. [ ] Add self profile to the [About > Governance > Maintainers section](https://nf-co.re/governance#maintainers)
```

> ## Maintainers Team Yearly Maintenance

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Maintainers team membership
```

:::note

> Maintainers can be added at any point of the year at the nomination of the community.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
New maintainers may be nominated by the community and join the team at any time.
```

> Yearly maintenance is performed to ensure everything is up-to-date particularly in regards to members who step down.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Maintainers maintenance is performed yearly to ensure membership is up-to-date, particularly in regards to members who wish to step down due to new or changing commitments.
```

:::

1. [ ] Ask who wants to step down

> 2. [ ] Ask for nominations in maintainers meeting, discuss and approve

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. [ ] Ask for nominations, discuss, and approve new members
```

3. [ ] Invite nominees to join
4. [ ] Once accepted, nominee and team leads perform tasks [onboarding](#maintainers-team-onboarding)

> 5. [ ] Move members who step down to alumni status on the website in the [About > Governance > Maintainers section](https://nf-co.re/governance#maintainers)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. [ ] Move members who step down to alumni status on the website in the [About > Governance > Maintainers section](https://nf-co.re/governance#maintainers)
```
```suggestion
5. [ ] Move members who step down to alumni status on the website in [**About > Governance > Maintainers**](https://nf-co.re/governance#maintainers)
```

> 5. [ ] Move members who are stepping down to alumni status on website in the [About > Governance > Maintainers section](https://nf-co.re/governance#maintainers)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. [ ] Move members who step down to alumni status on the website in the [About > Governance > Maintainers section](https://nf-co.re/governance#maintainers)
```

> 6. [ ] Announce on [#announcements](https://nfcore.slack.com/archives/CE6P95170)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
6. [ ] Announce new members on [#announcements](https://nfcore.slack.com/archives/CE6P95170)
```

> 1. [ ] Ask who wants to step down
> 2. [ ] Ask for nominations, discuss, and approve new members
> 3. [ ] Invite nominees to join
> 4. [ ] Once accepted, nominee and team leads perform tasks [onboarding](#maintainers-team-onboarding)
> 5. [ ] Move members who step down to alumni status on the website in the [About > Governance > Maintainers section](https://nf-co.re/governance#maintainers)
> 
> 6. [ ] Announce new members on [#announcements](https://nfcore.slack.com/archives/CE6P95170)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. [ ] Ask who wants to step down.
2. [ ] Ask for nominations, discuss, and approve new members.
3. [ ] Invite nominees to join.
4. [ ] Once accepted, nominee and team leads perform tasks [onboarding](#maintainers-team-onboarding).
5. [ ] Move members who step down to alumni status on the website in the [About > Governance > Maintainers section](https://nf-co.re/governance#maintainers).

6. [ ] Announce new members on [#announcements](https://nfcore.slack.com/archives/CE6P95170).
```
